Session 7: State-of-the-art phylogenetic methods
The special MFP key word stands for ModelFinder Plus, which tells IQ-TREE to perform ModelFinder and the remaining analysis using the selected model. ModelFinder computes the log-likelihoods of an initial parsimony tree for many different models and the Akaike information criterion (AIC), corrected Akaike information criterion (AICc), and the Bayesian information criterion (BIC). Then ModelFinder chooses the model that minimizes the BIC score (you can also change to AIC or AICc by adding the option -AIC or -AICc, respectively).

#####Question 1:
Which files do IQ-TREE output? Explain briefly what each of them is.
Suffix		Explanation
.iqtree		Full result of the run, this is the main report file
.log		Run log
.treefile	Maximum likelihood tree in NEWICK format, can be visualized with treeviewer programs
.svg		Graphical tree representation in SVG format, done with ete view
.pdf		Graphical tree representation in PDF format, done with ete view
.contree	Consensus tree with assigned branch supports where branch lengths are optimized on the original alignment; printed if Ultrafast Bootstrap is selected
.ckp.gz		Checkpoint file; included if a job was stopped because of RAM/CPU limits


#####Question 2:
IQ-TREE creates several types of trees for the CytB. Compare the .bionj tree with the ML tree. Are there any differences? If so, explain what they are and why you believe they are there.
There is differences in the order the branches are presented and also the BIONJ includes the outgroup when we expect this to be on an outside branch. I believe this had to do with the difference in the two algorithms. 

Maximum Likelihood (ML) trees represent the best statistical estimate of the true phylogenetic relationships among the sequences under the chosen model. Also, ML trees take into account the evolutionary model you specify (in this case MFP) and estimate model parameters (substitution rates, base frequencies, etc.) that best fit the data.
Neighbor-Joining (NJ) trees using the BioNJ algorithm  is a distance-based tree reconstruction method that uses pairwise genetic distances (typically estimated using models like Jukes-Cantor or Kimura) to construct a tree.


#####Question 3:
Which model did ModelFinder choose for the CytB? From all the criteria calculated by this software, which was used to determine the best-fitting model?
The best-fit model according to BIC: GTR+F+R2
Briefly explain the best-fitting model for the CytB.
This are DNA models based on base sustitution rates. 
GTR: General time reversible model with unequal rates and unequal base freq.
F: this is the default if the model has unequal base freq. ((default) counts base frequencies directly from the alignment.)

#####Question 4:
Now look at both your Maximum Likelihood tree and Consensus Tree. Are they the same? If not, where do they differ?

When looking at the trees they look exactly the same. The nodes, branches, and clade it forms seem to be the same.  Robinson-Foulds distance between ML tree and consensus tree: 0

In both trees you can see a number at the base of each branch. That is the number of iterations that supported that branching during bootstrapping. Which is your least supported branch? What does that mean to your question in relation to the CytB?
My least supported branch seems to be the branch of SB. This branch represents the relationship that is the least well-supported by the data and the analysis.
It could indicate that the CytB sequences may not provide strong evidence for that particular branching pattern or it could also reflect issues with the quality or quantity of your sequence data.
